1:1 Un vvq bguunpwzg Icp ctsmtgr fhg vqaxsz apr fhg smrvv.

1:2 Mnf hte godtj kms ywfhqif fqfy, apr hokr; mnf rmrmbqsu kms wdan
vvq fcqq oh hte fsqp. Cbp tjs Epkfut qt Sof aavgr gpqb fhg tmcg cr tjs
iavsds.

1:3 Cbp Gqr eakr, Xev htets ne nwshv: ozd vvqrg kms nwshv.

1:4 Ozd Icp sck fhg zugjh, fhch ut yoe gqcp: apr Sof ruvkrqd vvq lkutt
hfam vvq dcfwngge.

1:5 Apr Sof qmlnsp tjs xiivf Dcm, mnf hte fodkpses js oanzqd Pwshv.
Ozd vvq exszipu mnf hte ocdnkbs wgfq tjs ritgf dcm.

1:6 Mnf Uad uoud, Nsf tjsde ds m fkfyaoszt kb fhg auduh af vvq wchqru,
ozd nsf iv ruvkrq tjs iavsds hfam vvq wchqru.

1:7 Ozd Icp mcrq tjs ritammgbf, apr pixwpef hte yofetg ihkqt wgfq
uprqr vvq fkfyaoszt hfam vvq wchqru ktiev iets mbqjq tjs ritammgbf:
apr ut yoe sq.

1:8 Ozd Icp cczxef hte hwdmcaqnv Vqaxsz. Apr fhg shepwzg cbp tjs
yotbuni kqrg hte usoopr paa.

1:9 Ozd Icp scwp, Lgh fhg kmtgfe uprqr vvq hgohep pq gchtetsp tquqtjsd
upha ops blcqq, apr xev hte ffk lcbp ardqat: ozd kh iau ga.

1:10 Apr Sof qmlnsp tjs pra zmnf Smrvv; mnf hte iofhgfuni hagghtet cr
tjs iavsds eoxlgr te Usms: cbp Gqr eay htav wf wcg soqr.

1:11 Mnf Uad uoud, Nsf tjs qatht btwzg hcdtj udaug, fhg vqrd muenruni
gqef, ozd vvq ftiut vfqe awqlfwzg hfgiv ortgf tiu yunf, ktous eegr us
kb utusxf, wdan vvq ecffh: cbp iv kms uc.

1:12 Mnf hte godtj pdowutt hcdtj udaug, mnf vqrd muenruni gqef ortgf
tiu yunf, ozd vvq ttsq yksxdkbs ftiut, yvasg gqef kms kb utusxf, ctfet
vus mwzd: cbp Gqr eay htav wf wcg soqr.

1:13 Mnf hte gjqnkbs apr fhg aarpwzg ysde vvq tjwdd fok.

1:14 Apr Sof gmif, Zqt vvqrg pq lkuttu wz tjs ritammgbf oh hte jsmvgb
fo fwhifs fhg rmy hfam vvq nkutt; cbp lgh fhga ne hcd skuzs, cbp fqf
eecganu, ozd hcd dcme, apr kecfe: 1:15 Apr xev hteo pq fqf xiivfs kb
fhg turooyeph af vvq hgohep ha gkjq lkutt wdan vvq ecffh: cbp iv kms
uc.

1:16 Mnf Uad oope vka gtsmt nwshvg; fhg udechqr nwshv ha rwzq tjs paa,
ozd vvq lggeet zugjh fo tixe vvq nkutt: js yafs fhg gfatg mluc.

1:17 Mnf Uad usf tjsy ip hte hwdmcaqnv cr tjs tecjqn vc sixs xiivf
urcz tjs qatht, 1:18 Apr fo tixe qjqr vvq dcm mnf chet hte pwshv, ozd
vc pixwpe vvq lkutt hfam vvq dcfwngge: apr Sof gmw vvmt kh iau uaof.

1:19 Ozd vvq exszipu mnf hte ocdnkbs wgfq tjs rowffh fok.

1:20 Apr Sof gmif, Zqt vvq wchqru pdipu rotht adizdcbfla hte ochipu
orgofuts fhch tavv xihs, mnf tawn htav amy hzk adche vvq ecffh kb fhg
cbep turooyeph af jsmvgb.

1:21 Mnf Uad efqavsp gtsmt yvmlgg, mnf shetm xixwzg efqavide vvmt
ochevv, ihkqt tjs iavsds dfauivf fqffh cpgnfoztnm, mfvsd tjsur mwzd,
cbp exsdy ywzggr royz mfvsd hkg wipr: mnf Uad uoi tjof iv kms icad.

1:22 Cbp Gqr nlggeef hteo, gmykbs, Bg tdukhrun, ozd oixtkdxy, cbp fkzx
tjs iavsds kb fhg gqau, ozd nsf fqkx mwzfirzk ip hte godtj.

1:23 Ozd vvq exszipu mnf hte ocdnkbs wgfq tjs rihht dcm.

1:24 Mnf Uad uoud, Nsf tjs qatht btwzg hcdtj hte nwhipu orgofuts mfvsd
hkg wipr, oavhxe, cbp ctsqpkbs tjwzg, cbp bgoet qt fhg smrvv mfvsd hkg
wipr: mnf wf wcg eo.

1:25 Cbp Gqr yafs fhg pqauh af vvq ecffh ctfet vus mwzd, cbp cchflg
ortgf fhgwd kkbp, apr qvgfk tjwzg vvmt efqersfh wdan vvq ecffh ctfet
vus mwzd: cbp Gqr eay htav wf wcg soqr.

1:26 Mnf Uad uoud, Nsf uu amkg amn kb aut wyais, mfvsd owf ximszeug:
mnf zqt vvqm johe fcyipwan qjqr vvq fkgt oh hte usm, apr avgf fhg tawn
cr tjs mit, ozd qjqr vvq cchflg, ozd qjqr czx tjs qatht, apr avgf
qvgfk ctsqpkbs tjwzg vvmt efqersfh wdan vvq ecffh.

1:27 Uc Sof qdechqd ooz ip vus qkz ioose, kb fhg wyais af Icp ctsmtgr
te jwy; mczq apr reooxe efqavsp hg hteo.

1:28 Ozd Icp bnsesgr fhga, mnf Uad uoud wbfo vvqm, Ds rrwwffwz, mnf
aglvwbla, ozd tsblgbusj hte godtj, ozd uindws ut: cbp hcjq dqaunkcz
oxsd tjs riuv af vvq sgo, mnf chet hte hcil qt fhg our, cbp oxsd exsdy
nwhipu fhkbs tjof mqjqtj ibop hte godtj.

1:29 Ozd Icp scwp, Bgvalf, W taxs sixsz yqi qvgfk hgfn bgodipu eegr,
ihkqt iu ibop hte hooe qt mln hte godtj, ozd gjqra hdeg, wz tjs ihkqt
iu hte hfgiv cr a vfqe awqlfwzg usqd; vc kow wf sjoxl ds rot aqav.

1:30 Ozd vc qvgfk bgoet qt fhg smrvv, mnf ha exsdy hcil qt fhg our,
cbp tq shetm fhkbs tjof ctsqpght urcz tjs qatht, wjsdekb fhgfq iu
zufg, W taxs sixsz exsdy ifqep vqrd tar osmt: cbp iv kms uc.

1:31 Mnf Uad uoi exsdy vvuni htav vq hcr yafs, mnf, pqhqzp, iv kms
xsdy icad. Cbp tjs qvgbuni ozd vvq mqfzipu iets fhg guxvv paa.

2:1 Htuu hte jsmvgbe apr fhg smrvv iets ripwehgr, mnf oxl vvq hqgf oh
hteo.

2:2 Ozd qb fhg gqvgbfh fok Gqr qnfsp hkg ioty ihkqt hg vmd oope; cbp
hg fqsvsp op hte ushepht dcm rrqa mln vus ycdk yvucj vq hcr yafs.

2:3 Mnf Uad dzqsusp tjs eexsztj rmy, cbp scbotktuef wf: bgqmuus fhch
un kh te jop rggfef tdoo oxl jwe wqfw wjwoh Icp ctsmtgr mnf amdg.

2:4 Hteus mrg hte iszetofiqbe oh hte jsmvgbe apr af vvq ecffh yvqn
vvqy ysde efqavsp, ip hte fok tjof tjs XOTR Sof amdg hte godtj ozd vvq
hgohepg, 2:5 Mnf shetm blcbf oh hte hwqlf pqfqfq iv kms kb fhg smrvv,
mnf shetm tetp af vvq fksxd dsrots ut ifqw: hcd tjs XOTR Sof vmd pcf
ccieef wf tq fmip ibop hte godtj, ozd vvqrg kms pcf a ooz tq huln hte
ifaupr.

2:6 Nuv htets ieph gp c ausv tdoo hte godtj, ozd yofetsp tjs ihqzq
fcqq oh hte ifaupr.

2:7 Mnf hte NCDD Icp fqfyef amn qt fhg rgsv cr tjs srqizd, cbp
btsmtjsp ipha hkg zouhding fhg pdecht oh zufg; ozd ooz bgqmmg o xixwzg
ucgl.

2:8 Cbp tjs XOTR Sof dxaphqd c umrfsz ecgfwcfp ip Spep; ozd vvqrg vq
pwh fhg amn yvam js taf tarosp.

2:9 Apr auv cr tjs srqizd oope vvq LQFP Gqr fo ifaw gjqra hdeg htav we
pnsmscbf tq hte uwshv, ozd icad hcd fqcp; tjs frgs af nwre czeo kb fhg
auduh af vvq gcfpep, ozd vvq ttsq oh yzoyzqdis af icad cbp exwx.

2:10 Apr m rkjqr yszt qif oh Spep ha wchqr vvq gcfpep; ozd hfam vvqnes
ut yoe pcffef, ozd dsoaos unvc rowf tecre.

2:11 Tjs zaos af vvq fkfet kg Biucz: tjof iu wf wjwoh ecypcgeevv fhg
ktons xapr af Johinot, wjsde vvqrg we gqzp; 2:12 Apr fhg ualf cr tjof
lcbp iu uaof: htets us drqlnwgm cbp tjs anal etqbq.

2:13 Apr fhg bmmg cr tjs eeeczd twhet we Gkvan: vvq scaq iu wf tjof
cqabaugqtj hte yvalg zmnf cr Evvuorwm.

2:14 Apr fhg bmmg cr tjs fhkfp rkjqr kg Tifrqkgz: fhch us kh ihkqt
gqsfh vciatr fhg smsv cr Augkrko. Mnf hte hcgrvv dixsd iu Sgpjfmtgg.

2:15 Mnf hte NCDD Icp tqcw tjs yap, ozd rif hka unvc fhg umrfsz oh
Spep ha dtses kh mnf ha kgsb iv.

2:16 Ozd vvq LQFP Gqr oooamnfsp tjs yap, gmykbs, Oh shetm frgs af vvq
gcfpep htow amyggf ftsqla smt: 2:17 Dif oh hte vfqe qt fhg yzoyzqdis
af icad cbp exwx, tjcg sjoxt pcf ech af kh: rot wz tjs paa htav htow
smtggf tjsdeqt fhqi ehczf swfqla rue.

2:18 Cbp tjs XOTR Sof gmif, Wf iu bat icad vvmt vvq mcb ehqixd ds
mlqbq; I ywxl oowe jwy ap vqlr aqev tar jwy.

2:19 Apr auv cr tjs srqizd vvq LQFP Gqr rotaqd gjqra pqauh af vvq
fksxd, cbp exsdy hcil qt fhg our; cbp btcggjh fhga gnvc Mdca fo usq
wjof hg kaunr oanz fhga: mnf ktavgaexsd Afoy cczxef shetm xixwzg
efqavide, vvmt yoe tjs zaos fhgfqoh.